# Antonsen Brovold project

## Does changes in the price of salmon affect salmon producing companies?
The norwegian salmon has become a highly demanded commodity, during the past couple of decades. This had made salmon production a big buisiness in Norway. In fact the fifth most valuable company listed on the norwegian stock marked, is a salmon producing company, respectively “Marine harvest”. The second largest salmon producing company in Norway is “Salmar”, who holds the tenth place on the list of most valuable stocks. Considering a rich country like Norway, the position of these two companies means they are doing serious buisiness.

In this analysis we are going to take a look at how the stock prices of these two have changed the past years. We will also take a look at how the price of salmon has changed during the course of the last years. Then we will take a look on how the changes in the price of salmon, has affected the stock value of the aforementioned salmon producing companies. We will be using data from the statistical bureau in Norway “SSB”, and from https://www.netfonds.no/ who provides stock data. As addidtional information, we will be focusing on raw salmon and not frozen. This is simply due to the fact that there is fourthy times more turnover of raw salmon than frozen.

In our repository you will find an HTML file where u can see the final form of the project. It will include data from the date it was knitted in rmarkdown. However if u want the most recent data included in this report, u can knitt the rmd-file in rstudio yourself, and you can find the file in this repository. We have also included a rscript where a lot of the codes where run at the beginning of this project, but we highly reccomend you to use the rmd-file, because its more clean. 
